[Workers AI] Add tutorial for AI-powered interview practice tool (#18049)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers-ai/tutorials/build-ai-interview-practice-tool.mdx

:::note
[Hono](https://hono.dev) is a lightweight web framework that helps build API endpoints and handle HTTP requests. This tutorial uses Hono to create and manage the application's routing and middleware components.
:::

Create a new Worker project by running the following commands, using `ai-interview-tool` as the Worker name:

<PackageManagers
	type="create"
	pkg="cloudflare@latest"
	args={"ai-interview-tool"}
/>

<Render
	file="c3-post-run-steps"
	product="workers"
	params={{
		category: "web-framework",
		framework: "Hono",
	}}
/>

To develop and test your Cloudflare Workers application locally:

1. Navigate to your Workers project directory in your terminal:

```sh
cd ai-interview-tool
```

2. Start the development server by running:

```sh
npx wrangler dev
```

When you run `wrangler dev`, the command starts a local development server and provides a `localhost` URL where you can preview your application.
You can now make changes to your code and see them reflected in real-time at the provided localhost address.

### Define TypeScript types for the interview system

> Now that the project is set up, let's create the TypeScript types that will form the foundation of the interview system. These types will help you maintain type safety and provide clear interfaces for the different components of your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the project is set up, create the TypeScript types that will form the foundation of the interview system. These types will help you maintain type safety and provide clear interfaces for the different components of your application.
```

	// - Work across all routes via path="/"
	// - Last for 24 hours
	// - Only be sent in same-site requests to prevent CSRF
	setCookie(ctx, "username", username, {
		httpOnly: true,
		path: "/",
		maxAge: 60 * 60 * 24,
		sameSite: "Strict",
	});

	// Let the client know login was successful
	return ctx.json({ success: true });
};

// Set up authentication-related routes
export const configureAuthRoutes = () => {
	const router = new Hono<ApiContext>();

	// POST /login - Authenticate user and create session
	router.post("/login", authenticateUser);

	return router;
};
```

Finally, update main application file to include the authentication routes. Modify `src/index.ts`:

```typescript title="src/index.ts"
import { configureAuthRoutes } from "./routes/auth";
import { Hono } from "hono";
import { logger } from "hono/logger";
import type { ApiContext } from "./types";
import { requireAuth } from "./middleware/auth";

// Create our main Hono app instance with proper typing
const app = new Hono<ApiContext>();

// Create a separate router for API endpoints to keep things organized
const api = new Hono<ApiContext>();

// Set up global middleware that runs on every request

> // - Logger gives us visibility into what's happening

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// - Logger gives us visibility into what is happening
```

- Maintains state between connections, so users can reconnect without losing progress
- Comes with a powerful SQLite database to store all interview Q&A, feedback and metrics
- Enables smooth real-time interactions between the interviewer AI and candidate
- Handles multiple interview sessions efficiently without performance issues
- Creates a dedicated instance for each user, giving them their own isolated environment

First, let's configure the Durable Object in `wrangler.toml` file. Add the following configuration:

```toml title="wrangler.toml"
[[durable_objects.bindings]]
name = "INTERVIEW"
class_name = "Interview"

[[migrations]]
tag = "v1"
new_sqlite_classes = ["Interview"]
```

Next, create a new file `interview.ts` to define our Interview Durable Object:

```typescript title="src/interview.ts"
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class Interview extends DurableObject<CloudflareBindings> {
	// We will use it to keep track of all active WebSocket connections for real-time communication
	private sessions: Map<WebSocket, { interviewId: string }>;

	constructor(state: DurableObjectState, env: CloudflareBindings) {
		super(state, env);

> 		// Initialize empty sessions map - we'll add WebSocket connections as users join

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		// Initialize empty sessions map - we will add WebSocket connections as users join
```

```sh
npm run cf-typegen
```

### Set up SQLite Database Schema

Let's use SQLite at the Durable Object level for data persistence. This gives each user their own isolated database instance. You'll need two main tables:

- `interviews`: Stores interview session data
- `messages`: Stores all messages exchanged during interviews

But before you create these tables, create a service class to handle your database operations. This encapsulates database logic and helps you:

- Manage database schema changes
- Handle errors consistently
- Keep database queries organized

Create a new file called `services/InterviewDatabaseService.ts`:

```typescript title="src/services/InterviewDatabaseService.ts"
import {
	InterviewData,
	Message,
	InterviewStatus,
	InterviewTitle,
	InterviewSkill,
} from "../types";
import { InterviewError, ErrorCodes } from "../errors";

const CONFIG = {
	database: {
		tables: {
			interviews: "interviews",
			messages: "messages",
		},
		indexes: {
			messagesByInterview: "idx_messages_interviewId",
		},
	},
} as const;

export class InterviewDatabaseService {
	constructor(private sql: SqlStorage) {}

	/**

> 	 * Sets up the database schema by creating tables and indexes if they don't exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	 * Sets up the database schema by creating tables and indexes if they do not exist.
```

	 * This is called when initializing a new Durable Object instance to ensure
	 * we have the required database structure.
	 *
	 * The schema consists of:
	 * - interviews table: Stores interview metadata like title, skills, and status
	 * - messages table: Stores the conversation history between user and AI
	 * - messages index: Helps optimize queries when fetching messages for a specific interview
	 */
	createTables() {
		try {
			// Get list of existing tables to avoid recreating them
			const cursor = this.sql.exec(`PRAGMA table_list`);
			const existingTables = new Set([...cursor].map((table) => table.name));

			// The interviews table is our main table storing interview sessions.

> 			// We only create it if it doesn't exist yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			// We only create it if it does not exist yet.
```

			this.sql.exec(InterviewDatabaseService.QUERIES.CREATE_MESSAGE_INDEX);
		} catch (error: unknown) {
			const message = error instanceof Error ? error.message : String(error);
			throw new InterviewError(
				`Failed to initialize database: ${message}`,
				ErrorCodes.DATABASE_ERROR,
			);
		}
	}

	private static readonly QUERIES = {
		CREATE_INTERVIEWS_TABLE: `
      CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS interviews (
        interviewId TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
        title TEXT NOT NULL,
        skills TEXT NOT NULL,
        createdAt INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT (strftime('%s','now') * 1000),
        updatedAt INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT (strftime('%s','now') * 1000),
        status TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'pending'
      )
    `,
		CREATE_MESSAGES_TABLE: `
      CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS messages (
        messageId TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
        interviewId TEXT NOT NULL,
        role TEXT NOT NULL,
        content TEXT NOT NULL,
        timestamp INTEGER NOT NULL,
        FOREIGN KEY (interviewId) REFERENCES interviews(interviewId)
      )
    `,
		CREATE_MESSAGE_INDEX: `
      CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_messages_interview ON messages(interviewId)
    `,
	};
}
```

> Update your Interview Durable Object to use the database service by modifying `src/interview.ts`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the `Interview` Durable Object to use the database service by modifying `src/interview.ts`:
```

```typescript title="src/interview.ts"
import { InterviewDatabaseService } from "./services/InterviewDatabaseService";

export class Interview extends DurableObject<CloudflareBindings> {
	// Database service for persistent storage of interview data and messages
	private readonly db: InterviewDatabaseService;
	private sessions: Map<WebSocket, { interviewId: string }>;

	constructor(state: DurableObjectState, env: CloudflareBindings) {
		// ... previous code ...
		// Set up our database connection using the DO's built-in SQLite instance
		this.db = new InterviewDatabaseService(state.storage.sql);
		// First-time setup: ensure our database tables exist
		// This is idempotent so safe to call on every instantiation
		this.db.createTables();
	}
}
```

> Add methods to create and retrieve interviews in `services/InterviewDatabaseService.ts`:

Author: @db-cloudflare Yes, all new table additions should be placed within the 'createTables()' function. 

I'd be happy to clarify this - would you prefer me to update the documentation to make this requirement more explicit, or would you find it more helpful if I revised the code example to better demonstrate this?

      VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)
    `,

		GET_ALL_INTERVIEWS: `
      SELECT 
        interviewId, 
        title, 
        skills, 
        createdAt, 
        updatedAt, 
        status 
      FROM ${CONFIG.database.tables.interviews} 
      ORDER BY createdAt DESC
    `,

		INSERT_MESSAGE: `
      INSERT INTO ${CONFIG.database.tables.messages} 
      (messageId, interviewId, role, content, timestamp)
      VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?)
    `,

		GET_INTERVIEW: `
      SELECT 
        i.interviewId, 
        i.title, 
        i.skills, 
        i.status, 
        i.createdAt, 
        i.updatedAt,
        COALESCE(
          json_group_array(
            CASE WHEN m.messageId IS NOT NULL THEN
              json_object(
                'messageId', m.messageId,
                'role', m.role,
                'content', m.content,
                'timestamp', m.timestamp
              )
            END
          ),
          '[]'
        ) as messages
      FROM ${CONFIG.database.tables.interviews} i
      LEFT JOIN ${CONFIG.database.tables.messages} m ON i.interviewId = m.interviewId
      WHERE i.interviewId = ?
      GROUP BY i.interviewId
    `,
	};
}
```

> Add RPC methods to Interview Durable Object to expose database operations through API. Add this code to `src/interview.ts`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add RPC methods to the `Interview` Durable Object to expose database operations through API. Add this code to `src/interview.ts`:
```

```typescript title="src/interview.ts"
import {
	InterviewData,
	InterviewTitle,
	InterviewSkill,
	Message,
} from "./types";

export class Interview extends DurableObject<CloudflareBindings> {
	// Creates a new interview session
	createInterview(title: InterviewTitle, skills: InterviewSkill[]): string {
		return this.db.createInterview(title, skills);
	}

	// Retrieves all interview sessions
	getAllInterviews(): InterviewData[] {
		return this.db.getAllInterviews();
	}

	// Adds a new message to the 'messages' table and broadcasts it to all connected WebSocket clients.
	addMessage(
		interviewId: string,
		role: "user" | "assistant",
		content: string,
		messageId: string,
	): Message {
		const newMessage = this.db.addMessage(
			interviewId,
			role,
			content,
			messageId,
		);
		this.broadcast(
			JSON.stringify({
				...newMessage,
				type: "message",
			}),
		);
		return newMessage;
	}
}
```

### Create REST API Endpoints

> With your Durable Object and database service ready, create REST API endpoints to manage interviews. You'll need endpoints to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With your Durable Object and database service ready, create REST API endpoints to manage interviews. You will need endpoints to:
```

import { configureAuthRoutes } from "./routes/auth";
import { configureInterviewRoutes } from "./routes/interview";
import { Hono } from "hono";
import { Interview } from "./interview";
import { logger } from "hono/logger";
import type { ApiContext } from "./types";

const app = new Hono<ApiContext>();
const api = new Hono<ApiContext>();

app.use("", logger());

api.route("/auth", configureAuthRoutes());
api.route("/interviews", configureInterviewRoutes());

app.route("/api/v1", api);

export { Interview };
export default app;
```

Now you have two new API endpoints:

- `POST /api/v1/interviews`: Creates a new interview session
- `GET /api/v1/interviews`: Retrieves all interviews for the authenticated user

You can test these endpoints running the following command:

1. Create a new interview:

```sh
curl -X POST http://localhost:8787/api/v1/interviews \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Cookie: username=testuser; HttpOnly" \
-d '{"title":"Frontend Developer Interview","skills":["JavaScript","React","CSS"]}'
```

2. Get all interviews:

```sh
curl http://localhost:8787/api/v1/interviews \
-H "Cookie: username=testuser; HttpOnly"
```

### Set up WebSocket handler

> Now that you have your basic interview management system in place, let's add real-time communication capabilities using WebSockets. You'll use Durable Objects to maintain WebSocket connections and handle real-time message processing.
> 
> First, update Interview Durable Object to handle WebSocket connections. Update `src/interview.ts`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the basic interview management system in place, you will now implement Durable Objects to handle real-time message processing and maintain WebSocket connections.

Update the `Interview` Durable Object to handle WebSocket connections by adding the following code to `src/interview.ts`:
```

```typescript
export class Interview extends DurableObject<CloudflareBindings> {
	// Services for database operations and managing WebSocket sessions
	private readonly db: InterviewDatabaseService;
	private sessions: Map<WebSocket, { interviewId: string }>;

	constructor(state: DurableObjectState, env: CloudflareBindings) {
		// ... previous code ...

		// Keep WebSocket connections alive by automatically responding to pings
		// This prevents timeouts and connection drops
		this.ctx.setWebSocketAutoResponse(
			new WebSocketRequestResponsePair("ping", "pong"),
		);
	}

	async fetch(request: Request): Promise<Response> {
		// Check if this is a WebSocket upgrade request
		const upgradeHeader = request.headers.get("Upgrade");
		if (upgradeHeader?.toLowerCase().includes("websocket")) {
			return this.handleWebSocketUpgrade(request);
		}

> 		// If it's not a WebSocket request, we don't handle it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		// If it is not a WebSocket request, we don't handle it
```

Now that audio processing pipeline is set up, let's integrate Workers AI's Whisper model for speech-to-text transcription.

First, configure the Worker AI binding in your `wrangler.toml` file by adding:

```toml
# ... previous configuration ...
[ai]
binding = "AI"
```

Next, you need to generate TypeScript types for our AI binding. Run the following command:

```sh
npm run cf-typegen
```

Now, let's create a new service class for AI operations. Create a new file called `services/AIService.ts`:

```typescript title="src/services/AIService.ts"
import { InterviewError, ErrorCodes } from "../errors";

export class AIService {
	constructor(private readonly AI: Ai) {}

	async transcribeAudio(audioData: Uint8Array): Promise<string> {
		try {
			// Call the Whisper model to transcribe the audio
			const response = await this.AI.run("@cf/openai/whisper-tiny-en", {
				audio: Array.from(audioData),
			});

			if (!response?.text) {
				throw new Error("Failed to transcribe audio content.");
			}

			return response.text;
		} catch (error) {
			throw new InterviewError(
				"Failed to transcribe audio content",
				ErrorCodes.TRANSCRIPTION_FAILED,
			);
		}
	}
}
```

> Now, let's update Interview Durable Object to use this new AI service. Update the handleBinaryAudio method in `src/interview.ts`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to update the `Interview` Durable Object to use this new AI service. To do this, update the handleBinaryAudio method in `src/interview.ts`:
```

  try {
    const uint8Array = new Uint8Array(audioData);
    const session = this.sessions.get(ws);

    if (!session?.interviewId) {
      throw new Error("No interview session found");
    }

    // Create a message ID for tracking
    const messageId = crypto.randomUUID();

    // Send processing state to client
    this.broadcast(
      JSON.stringify({
        type: "message",
        status: "processing",
        role: "user",
        messageId,
        interviewId: session.interviewId,
      }),
    );

    // NEW: Use AI service to transcribe the audio
    const transcribedText = await this.aiService.transcribeAudio(uint8Array);

    // Store the transcribed message
    await this.addMessage(session.interviewId, "user", transcribedText, messageId);

  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Audio processing failed:", error);
    this.handleWebSocketError(ws, error);
  }
}
```

:::note
The Whisper model `@cf/openai/whisper-tiny-en` is optimized for English speech recognition. If you need support for other languages, you can use different Whisper model variants available through Workers AI.
:::

> Now when users speak during the interview, their audio will be automatically transcribed and stored as messages in the interview session. The transcribed text will be immediately available to both the user and the AI interviewer for generating appropriate responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When users speak during the interview, their audio will be automatically transcribed and stored as messages in the interview session. The transcribed text will be immediately available to both the user and the AI interviewer for generating appropriate responses.
```

## 5. Integrate AI response generation

Now that you have audio transcription working, let's implement AI interviewer response generation using Workers AI's LLM capabilities. You'll create an interview system that:

- Maintains context of the conversation
- Provides relevant follow-up questions
- Gives constructive feedback
- Stays in character as a professional interviewer

### 5.1. Set up Workers AI LLM integration

> First, let's enhance `AIService` class to handle LLM interactions. You will need to add methods for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, update the `AIService` class to handle LLM interactions. You will need to add methods for:
```

      content: this.createSystemPrompt(interview),
    },
    ...messageHistory,
  ];
}
```

:::note
The @cf/meta/llama-2-7b-chat-int8 model is optimized for chat-like interactions and provides good performance while maintaining reasonable resource usage.
:::

### 5.2. Create conversation prompt

Prompt engineering is crucial for getting high-quality responses from the LLM. Next, you will create a system prompt that:

- Sets the context for the interview
- Defines the interviewer's role and behavior
- Specifies the technical focus areas
- Guides the conversation flow

Add the following method to your `services/AIService.ts` class:

```typescript title="src/services/AIService.ts"
private createSystemPrompt(interview: InterviewData): string {
  const basePrompt = "You are conducting a technical interview.";
  const rolePrompt = `The position is for ${interview.title}.`;
  const skillsPrompt = `Focus on topics related to: ${interview.skills.join(", ")}.`;
  const instructionsPrompt = "Ask relevant technical questions and provide constructive feedback.";

  return `${basePrompt} ${rolePrompt} ${skillsPrompt} ${instructionsPrompt}`;
}
```

### 5.3. Implement response generation logic

> Finally, let's integrate the LLM response generation into the interview flow. Update the `handleBinaryAudio` method in the `src/interview.ts` Durable Object to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, integrate the LLM response generation into the interview flow. Update the `handleBinaryAudio` method in the `src/interview.ts` Durable Object to:
```

    const interview = await this.db.getInterview(session.interviewId);
    if (!interview) {
      throw new Error(`Interview not found: ${session.interviewId}`);
    }

    // Now it's the AI's turn to respond
    // First generate an ID for the assistant's message
    const assistantMessageId = crypto.randomUUID();

    // Let the client know we're working on the AI response
    this.broadcast(
      JSON.stringify({
        type: "message",
        status: "processing",
        role: "assistant",
        messageId: assistantMessageId,
        interviewId: session.interviewId,
      }),
    );

    // Generate the AI interviewer's response based on the conversation history
    const llmResponse = await this.aiService.processLLMResponse(interview);
    await this.addMessage(session.interviewId, "assistant", llmResponse, assistantMessageId);
  } catch (error) {
    // Something went wrong processing the audio or generating a response
    // Log it and let the client know there was an error
    console.error("Audio processing failed:", error);
    this.handleWebSocketError(ws, error);
  }
}
```

## Conclusion

> You've successfully built an AI-powered interview practice tool using Cloudflare's Workers AI. Let's review what you've accomplished:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have successfully built an AI-powered interview practice tool using Cloudflare's Workers AI. In summary, you have:
```

---
updated: 2024-11-06
difficulty: Intermediate
content_type: 📝 Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Build an interview practice tool with Workers AI
products:
  - Workers
  - Workers AI

>   - Durable Objects
> languages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Durable Objects
spotlight:
  author: Vasyl
  author_bio_link: https://github.com/berezovyy
  author_bio_source: GitHub
languages:
```
